
Option Q -- If the ZCPR quiet flag is set, FILEATTR will always default to 
quiet mode.  To make quiet mode the default at all times, even when running 
under CP/M, set this configuration option to "Yes".  Whatever is selected 
here can be toggled with the command line "Q" option.

Option X -- A "Yes" will cause FILEATTR to page screen output by default.  
A "No" will default to continuous scrolling.  The chosen default can be 
toggled with the command line "X" option.  Screen paging is always turned 
off in quiet mode.

Option R -- As distributed, FILEATTR prints nothing to the screen when it 
is operating in quiet mode.  If this configuration option is "Yes", the 
results summary line that gives the number of matching files found and the 
number of attributes changed will be printed even in quiet mode.

Option S -- Enter the number of lines on your video display screen.  Under 
ZCPR 3.3 and higher, the number of screen lines for paging is obtained from 
the environment descriptor.  This configuration parameter is used only if 
running under CP/M.


                      Attribute Configuration Options

As distributed, FILEATTR will not change any file attribute unless 
explicitly commanded to do so by a command line option.  To configure 
FILEATTR to turn a file attribute ON or OFF by default, toggle the 
appropriate configuration selection.

For example, to make FILEATTR set all matching files to Public by default, 
change the "Public attribute" setting to "Turn On".  Then FILEATTR will set 
the specified files to Public unless the /NP command line option is given 
(which would cause the files to be set to Private).  Since there is no 
command which tells FILEATTR not to change an attribute, however, the 
program will now insist on turning the Public attribute either on (default) 
or off (through the /NP option).

Most users will have neither need nor desire to change the configuration 
default as distributed which will "Leave As-Is" all matching files.
